>> James Halliday: The really fun part and
useful part about writing scripts
in Bash is you can take all of
the commands that we've already learned,
that we've already been typing, put them
into a file, and then run them again and
again with whatever arguments you want.
So all of you pretty much already
know how to write Bash scripts.
We just need to do a few more things, and
then we can take these
command line work flows and
encapsulate them into something that
is more reusable, more portable.
So how you do this is, so
maybe we'll make a script that
will just log a message into a file
that's based on the current date, right?
>> James Halliday: So
I'm gonna make a new directory to do this.
I'll call this script Logger,
no extension.
Sometimes people put a .sh extension,
but you don't have to.
The first thing that you put
is called a number of things.
I've heard it called the shebang line,
or the hashbang line, or
the interpreter it's also sometimes known.
I don't know exactly, but anyways,
you put a pound sign, an exclamation mark,
and then the name of the interpreter
which in our case will be /bin/bash.
And there are other interpreters on
the system, like sed and Perl and
whatnot, but
here is how we write a Bash script.
So the next thing that we wanna do
is we wanna put the commands that
we would otherwise type, but
we're gonna put them in this file instead.
So to do that we're gonna say,
we'll maybe print out the timestamp,
because logs with time stamps are more
useful I think than without them.
So to do that we can use
back ticks which we just
learned about to this state
stream %F %T or %T not +T.
>> James Halliday: Maybe with a dot.
I like that format or
how do they usually put it?
It's like z, I don't know, that's fine.
So that's gonna be the start of our,
this is our log format.
Why don't we just stat doing
this in the command line so
we can kind of test out
how this is gonna work.
All right, your %F %T just like this,
and then we're gonna have our message.
So message goes here.
All right, and we gotta do echo
in front of all of that and
that should be back text, okay.
Great, so this is how we want
our log format to work and
then we're gonna wanna write that out to
our Log file base on the current date.
So we can use backticks again for that.
We'll just date %F which is gonna be the
year, month, day with dashes in between.
And we'll call it .log, all right, so
this is what we would do on the command
line to put a message, right?
But the thing is we don't wanna have to
type this out every single time, right?
So the part that's gonna be different
every time is this message in
the middle, right?
Let me just make sure that that works and
here we see 2017 whatever log.
Looks like it works, all right.
So now we can copy paste
this into this other file,
that starts with a #!/bin/bash and
we can use an argument.
So there are different
ways of doing arguments.
Whenever your script is called, you'll
get all of the arguments that were passed
to it as environment variables that
start at one and increase in number.
So like, dollar sign one,
dollar sign two, dollar sign three, etc.
So here, we have our script, right.
And the next thing that we
need to do is do this command,
chmod +x and
then the name of our script file.
And what that does, is it sets
the executable bit on the file, and
I'll talk about this
a little more in a bit.
But basically, to run a script,
you have to do ch1+x.
>> James Halliday: So to run this file,
you have to specify either the absolute,
or relative path.
You can't just type logger.
So we can use one of the things that
we already learned which is that
the current directory is called dot.
So you can do ./logger, and
then give it a message.
>> James Halliday: And
now we see a new file, cool.
So now our new message
shows up in the log.
But there's one more thing
that I think we wanna do.
So if I do a message that has two
words in it, right, hello world,
and cut it out, we only see the first
bit of that, which is hello.
So I could either run the logger
by quoting the string like this,
which prints out what we would expect,
like the complete message.
Or there's another variable we can
use in our script, which is called,
there's a few of them.
But so there's $* and $@,
whoops, $@ sign, there's kinda some
subtle differences that I don't wanna get
into about which is which and which works
in which circumstances, but whatever.
For this we can use either one,
so we'll use $* and
now, I can say hello Minnesota and when
I cut it out I see the complete message.
So I don't have to quote it necessarily,
but if I quote that then also
works,
>> James Halliday: Right,
and when the next day rolls around it'll
start writing output to a new log file
because that's how our script works